Welcome back.
Let's see how we can implement the answer method.
And this was a tough one so hopefully you got it.
If not at least you tried so that we can see how we want to implement the insert method properly.
The very first thing I want to do is well first of all check my parameters and this is something that
I usually want to do with all methods.
I know we simplified things and when we looked at present and append We never checked whether the value
was something that we wanted but when it comes to inserting something we want to make sure especially
that the index is a value that we understand so our program doesn't give any errors.
And there's many things that we can do for a check and I'll leave it up to you to really implement really
good checking.
But the one important check that I think we should have is if index is greater than or equal to this
length.
So if I give an insert of let's say index at 200 and our list is only three items long I want to be
able to handle that properly.
In this case I'm saying as long as the index is greater or equal to this dominant.
In that case just add it to the end of the list.
So if I say insert 200 value of ninety nine I'm just going to add the ninety nine to the end of the
list and you can implement different variations of this.
Maybe you can return an error if you want but to simplify things I think this is good enough and we
can just say return this dot append which you already have.
We have to say this start a pen because we're referencing a method in this class so say this append
and we'll just add the value.
There we go.
So if I do two hundred ninety nine over here let's And let's add the Prynne list at the bottom here
and if I click run I get 99 added to the end of the list.
But what if index was to while this now is the heart part.
We want to first create the new node and remember we can create a new class instance if we wanted to
but in our case we'll just create a new object that has a value of value.
And next of no nothing new here we've seen this before.
Comes the tricky part and I like to comment this out or at least visualize it so we understand what
we're doing.
We have two notes that are connected and then we have a NEW know that comes along and says hey I want
you to answer me right in between here.
What should the steps be.
Well the first thing we need to do is to actually figure out which node the first one is because remember
to insert something we can pick whatever index we want.
So if we want to insert an index of two we want to grab whatever is that index of two.
So we need to.
So we need to traverse our list and say 0 1 to to find this node and get a reference to it.
Otherwise we don't really have a reference to it.
Remember a link list only has reference to this head and this tail.
So the very first thing we want to do is to actually get to that note and we're going to call this first
node the leader because that's going to be the first one first note that we're going to connect this
new node 2 and this new node is now going to point next to the old node or the no that was initially
connected to the first note.
So I'm going to say that this leader node is going to be well how can we get that we need to somehow
traverse one by one until we find the index we're looking for and to keep the code clean.
I'm going to create a new method.
I'm going to say this dot traverse to index is going to be a new method.
That's simply going to get the index that is 0 1 2 and I want to grab the leader.
So if I want to insert the number 99 in here I have to make sure that 10 points to ninety nine and ninety
nine points to five.
So that means I need to grab the index not here and point it to the leader that is the 10 the leader
that we want of the list.
So I'm going to do is minus one so point to the leader and this traverse to index.
While we're going to have to create it.
And I have this key word here because again it's a method onto this class I'm going to say Traverse
two index that's going to get an index.
And this is where we do our traversal or looping.
You might want to check for parameters here and make sure that it's a valid index and that's something
that you can do on your own.
It's not very important for this example.
We can assume that the index is going to be a valid number a valid index.
And then here we're going to first do something like a counter that's going to equal to zero.
And we're going to say that the current node is something we did similar to the print list we're going
to keep the current node as this had.
And while the current or the of the counter doesn't equal the index because we're saying keep traversing
go from the beginning from the head all the way until the counter is equal to the index.
So keep going through the while loop as long as the counter doesn't equal the index.
But as soon as the counter becomes the index so while we reach the point that we want in our case traverse
to index minus one that means as soon as we get to 10 then stop.
But until then I want you to traverse through this so current node is going to equal
current node dot next.
So we're going to keep moving the current node over to the right and we're going to increment the counter
one by one.
That's it.
That's our traversal.
All we need to do at the end because we want to return something from this method is to return the current
node and then we have it we say traverse to the index.
In our case if we do insert two ninety nine.
It's going to receive two ninety nine here.
It's going to create the new node and it's going to traverse to index to minus one is 1 so it's going
to say 0 and 1 and the counter is going to equal index.
So it's going to exit out of the loop and it's going to return the current node which is 10.
We grab the reference to the leader.
Congrats but we're not done yet.
Right.
Once we grab the reference to the leader what do we do next.
Well the next thing is we want to make sure that we grab the next item in this original list that is
we want to hold a pointer to number five.
Again we don't want to break this list.
We want to make sure that the connections are working properly and that Nine-Nine comes after 10 and
after 99 comes five.
So the next step you want to do in our insert method is to what I call hold or let's just call it holding
pointer.
I could probably name that better but holding Poitier's is nice and we'll say leader dot next.
Leader Don next is five and this five.
We now have it referenced in this variable that will have temporarily next because we have five saved
to this variable referenced in this variable.
We can now update the leader next to point to our new node.
So I can say leader Dodd next is going to now point to new node and remember because of how references
work we've deleted the reference of five here so 10 no longer points to five but we've saved the reference
to it in here.
And this variable.
So right now if we go back to our example here we've removed the reference to this and now 10 points
to
now it's better spacing.
There you go.
OK what do we do next.
Well we now need this node you know 2.2 this one like this and that's pretty simple right.
We simply say new note Don next is going to equal the hold the pointer the five that we are keeping
in memory.
And then finally we say this land plus plus because we've added to the list and we can return this or
just so we know we did it properly.
I'm going to say this thought print list once we insense something insert something we're going to just
print the list.
Let's see if that works.
I want to remove this so the code works and we don't need to print this out.
Let's run this command.
Hey look at that.
So before we had this list and let's actually print Vestiaire so we can see it in my print or my linked
list dot print CList.
This is what we had before and we added 99 in here.
Just like that.
And just to test it out one more time if I do my linked list dot insert again and this time will give
it 20 which doesn't exist index of 20 and at 88 that should be added to the end of the list.
And because with this insert where when we do the check we're just adding this dot append which isn't
printing the list.
Let's just add a print list at the bottom here to make sure that that is working.
There you go 88 at the end very very nice.
I know that was challenging and insert is probably the toughest function to implement or method to implement
in a linked list but practice this a couple times.
Really understand what each step is doing.
Draw it out if you need to.
But congratulations.
We just implemented an answer function into our list length list.
And you might notice year that we had to traverse where we had a wildly.
And this might make sense now rate.
Why we had the insert as all of an Because we had to loop through our list and look up which can also
be called traversal was also all event that was our traverse to index.
Right.
If we're looking for an item at index of 10 for example we'd have to look up in the worst case is that
we had to go through the entire list.
Same with tensor.
All right.
Now that we've done the insert you should be able to do the next one on your own that is delete using
something very similar to how we did with insert.
Let's add a delete or like to call this remove.
Let's have a remove that has the parameter and X of what you want to remove.
Good luck coding this and I'll see you in the solution video.